# Matlabcode
In this project you will build interpolating polynomials, with the goal of approximating the func- tion f (x) = sin(8 cos(x)) + cos(4x) on the domain [0, 2] as closely as possible. Newton’s divided differences will be used to construct the polynomial. 1. The Matlab command x0=2*(0:(n-1))/(n-1); defines n equally-spaced points in the interval [0, 2]. Take y0 values from the function f (x) at these x0 coordinates, using “exact” values from Matlab’s library functions for sin and cos. The Matlab m-files nest.m and newtdd.m can be used to find the degree n − 1 interpolating polynomial Pn−1(x) that passes through the n points. Plot the actual f(x) versus Pn−1(x) on [0,2] for n = 10 points. (Use a plotting grid of width 0.01 or less to get a good plot.) Include the interpolating points, plotted as circles. In a separate figure, plot the interpolation error of P9(x) on [0, 2], using Matlab’s semilogy command, and calculate the maximum interpolation error on the domain [0, 2]. 2. Find the smallest n that makes the maximum interpolation error on the domain [0, 2] less than 0.5 × 10−6, if possible. For this n, show the same two plots as in Step 1, the interpo- lation polynomial plot and the semilog interpolation error plot. Where along the interval [0, 2] is the error typically the largest? 3. Change the base points from equally-spaced to the “Chebyshev points” on [0, 2], and redo Step 2. Find the smallest n that makes the error less than 0.5 × 10−6 and show the same two plots. The Chebyshev points are generated by replacing the command above by the Matlab command x0=1+cos((1:2:2*n-1)*pi/(2*n));
